---
---

# Azad Bolour - Software Consultant

Principal at Bolour Computing 

Independent software consultant since 1987. Architect, team lead, developer.
Expertise in the Java and the JVM ecosystem. Recent experience in Scala,
Haskell, React, Cloud Foundry.

azadbolour at bolour.com

[web site](http://www.bolour.com/)

## Professional Interests

Hands-on technical leadership in a tight-knit software development team.
Contribution to all aspects of the development process, including product
definition, system design and construction, and the development process itself.
Preference for modern functional programming langauges like Scala. Preference
for a low ceremony self-organizing team cuture.

## Experience

### Independent Software Consultant - Bolour Computing - 1987 - Present

Please see individual items below for a sampling of my clients. 

#### Scala Consultant - Rally Health

Under contract with Artima, Inc. Spearheaded the implementation of an
authorization microservice for a family of Rally's services, in Scala, using
Play and MongoDB. The authorization service allows security personnel to manage
the capabilities of different roles in the organization to access the functions
and the data of different services.

#### Senior Software Consultant - GE Digital - Jun 2015 - Apr 2016 

Designed and implemented a deployer for applications composed of an evolving set
of micro-services. The application is described declaratively by identifying the
specific build numbers of its micro-services. The deployer obtains the specified
artifacts from an artifact repository (artifactory) and deploys them to the
cloud (Cloud Foundry). The deployer focuses on consistency, traceability, and
performance. Blue-green deployment is used for consistency. Bi-directional
traceability is provided by tracking the evolution of a composite application in
Git, and by tracking data about the deployed versions of micro-services in the
cloud itself. 

#### Senior Software Consultant - Attensity Inc. - Jan 2014 - Jan 2015 

Designed and implemented a real-time streaming query processing system for
social media data, using Groovy/Grails and Akka.

#### Consultant at VMware - Mar 2013 - Sept 2013 

Developed a user activity tracking and logging system for the VMware vCloud
Hybrid Service (vCHS) in Scala using the Akka actor system and the Slick data
access API. Implemented population and migration processes for the vCHS
database.

#### Software Consultant - SeatAdvisor, Inc. - 2010 - 2012 

Designed and developed a new generation the SeatAdvisor's REST API. Upgraded
SeatAdvisor's code base and build tools to facilitate automated testing,
continuous integration, and other modern software practices.

#### Senior Architect - PS'Soft - 2007 - 2008

Led PS'Soft's modernization team to design the next generation of IT asset
management services, based on .NET and C#. Initiated an agile development
process. Worked hands-on with the development team to define and build the
domain model and REST API of the new asset management system. Led the
evaluation, selection, and integration of third party frameworks and libraries.

#### Chief Architect - MyBuys - 2005 - 2006 

Technical lead of MyBuys' development team. Spearheaded the development of a
web-based system for capturing consumer preferences, matching preferences to
retailer inventories, and providing shopping alerts to consumers through email
and RSS. Architected the system based on the Spring framework and Hibernate.
Built significant parts of the preference capture and matching system.

#### Consultant - Borland - 1998 - 1999 

Benchmarking of the Borland Enterprise Server: Borland's J2EE platform.
Implemented the TPC-W benchmark by using Java Servlets and EJBs. Deployed and
tuned the benchmark on the Sun Solaris platform by using Oracle.

#### Consultant - Siemens Communications - May 1993 - Dec 1993 

Designed, implemented, and deployed an update-anywhere data replication scheme,
based on the Sybase Replication Server, for the Siemens Modification Request
Tracking System, a global software life cycle information system, with database
replicas in California and Germany.

#### Consultant - Pacific A&M Insuarance - 1990 - 1991 

Led the development team of the Pacific A&M Information System, an insurance
administration, marketing, and accounts receivable system. Designed,
implemented, and deployed the system by using the INGRES RDBMS.

### Sun Microsystems - Member, Technical Staff - 1985 - 1987

Co-designed the Network Software Environment, an integrated development platform
for configuration management, version control, coordinated development, and
release management.

### Ingres Corporation - Member of Technical Staff - 1983 - 1985

Designed and implemented B-trees, a dynamic storage structure for tables and
indexes in the relational database management system INGRES.

### University of California, Berkeley - Lecturer - Computer Science Division - 1977 - 1983

Taught various undergraduate courses.

### University of California, San Francisco - Assistant Professor, Medical Information Science - 1976 - 1982

Research. Studied the representation and processing of time in databases.
Proposed a basis for the management of historical data. Teaching. Taught
graduate and undergraduate computer science courses. Supervised Master's and
Ph.D. students.

## Education

University of California, Berkeley - Ph.D., Computer Science - 1972 - 1976.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bachelor's and Master's, Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science - 1967 - 1972

